we'll be diffusion okay nor they may
cross either people or n will boldly
simply you studied in case of a while
drawing a strict diagram and laying out
you studied in the same thing here also
restate the same points okay so this all
point should be considered by designing
subsystem okay let us take it is a
designer 4-bit shifter okay
so general purpose the N bit shifter is
used or will capable of shifting up to a
data incoming data by n minus 1 places
in right shift are left shift direction
that is if I take a 4-bit shift register
it can shift up to 3 bit left are 3 bit
right okay so shifting is carried on and
around bases end around one end to
another end and their own bases that is
any bit shifted out at one end after the
tower will be shifted at the other end
of the word okay that is the end around
bases and around bases here one bit
shift right is equivalent to three bit
shift left in your microprocessor or a
microcontroller subject you use
instructions correct here one bit shift
right is equivalent to three bit shift
left are two bit shift right is equal to
two bit shift left okay so in forbid
shifter you can firm ok shift operation
it is zero shift one bit shift - bit
shift are three it shift right
- good shift left equal to 2 which shift
right one bit shift right is equivalent
to 3 which shift left right so this
shifter must have 4 line input and 4
output lines for a shifted data input
can be transferred to output line using
shift to 0 shift 1 you are using 0 1 2 3
bits using shift from 0 1 2 3 bits data
flow direction as for the design in
horizontal and control signal flow
Direction vertical so this one is
control flow okay and this one is data
flow okay when designing a subsystem now
here
troz for cross bar switch this is this
one is a fortress for cross bar switch
simple MOS transistor is connected when
you observe this one source of the
master in stir connected to input lines
and drain of the master is connected to
output lines here this is in zero in one
you do in three
similarly out to zero out one out of two
and out three connected to drain of
transistors mass transfer is nothing but
a switch okay
whenever you apply one to a gate
terminal master shall become on okay
access a closed switch when you apply a
0 to a gate of MOS transistor access a
open switch right if you take in this
example when I make switch 0 0 and I
make switch which one this one 0 0 as a
1 as a 1 whatever input that is in 0 if
it is 1 that one will be out 0 as a 1
getting my point
whenever switch is 0 0 is 1 this MOS
transistor this one is will be is in arm
straight so if in in 0 is 1 same thing
will be out as Eero okay similarly if I
take this
register if I make switch 1 1 as a 1
then device will be what straight on
straight this which is in on straight if
I apply in 1 as a 0 in 1 as a 0
okay then out 1 is also 0 why because
this in 1 is 0 that will be flowed okay
you are going to get out one has a 0
like that this 4 cross 4 cross bar
switch functions okay if you make all
the transistor 1 what will be the result
there may be chances of shortening
correct why because all inputs connected
to all the outputs there will be chances
of shortening why because this is on all
transistors in on straight that one
become glorious okay so here it needs a
16 control signals it increases the
complexity to overcome this difficulty
okay what you have to do you have to go
on joining like this file shorty switch
is 0 0 2 switch 1 1 then switch to 2
then switch 3 3 similarly if you join
like this okay this will be joined like
this this will be joined like this ok
you can go through next circular Graham
yeah this is 4 plus 4 barrel chapter in
previous case it needs a 16 control
signals here it requires only 4 control
signals so this is a barrel ship
okay when you apply zero to this one
which one this is zero here if you apply
a 0 here ok whatever input same thing
will be the output getting my point here
when you apply zero here ship to zero
this one become zero shift whatever in
zero equal to out to zero in one equal
to out 1 e 2 equal two outer two ended
in 3 equal to out 3 there is no shift ok
that is shift to 0 similarly if I apply
shift 1 okay here this one shift 1 equal
to 1 shift 1 equal to what 1 in that
case there is a one bit shift operation
occurs so one bit shift whatever or
input 0 mode to output one input one
more to output to input 2 3 more to core
put 3 into 2 3 more to output 0 ok here
one bit shift takes place when you make
a shift 1 as a 1 ok similarly when you
make shift 2 as a 1 and remaining on a 0
in that case in that case 2 bit shift
operation takes place similarly if you
make shift 3 as a 1 remaining on a 0
there is a
a bit shift takes place okay so this is
what fortress for barrel shifter right
so the as I was explaining you switch
gears are covered in a group into four
groups here four groups are four formed
with corresponding to shift to zero
shift one shift to shift three this
attachment you want to say is what
barrel shifter fine now
I hope all of you understood this one